Let's talk about the fundamental building block of object or in a programming class.
The most common type of class is a concrete class and the name already hints you as to what it actually
is concrete means that everything in the class is defined and implemented.
It can be instantiated and then used.
And as you remember once you have instantiated a class you have an object which you can then using a
program.
Now let's go in and create a concrete class.
I will go ahead and create a file called car salesman.
Then I will go ahead and create a concrete class.
Let's go ahead and say new file.
I'll say.
Car salesman yes.
Then I will create a class a concrete class
so you will do this by using the reserved keyword class.
And then writing the name of the class after it.
It can be anything you want.
But in this case it is car salesmen.
In this class we'll have a constructor fields and property and a method.
This constructor will take in two parameters one called first name.
The other one called last name.
I'm going to say public car salesman.
And then this will take in first name.
Strong blast name.
All right.
And then I'm going to have the fields.
OK.
So I'm gonna set the first name equals first No.
Then last name is equal to last name.
OK.
Here we go.
Then we will have a property which will expose the combined value of these fields and the expose value
will be the full name.
So we'll just simply put the first name in the last name together go in and create that.
I will say public string full name
and then gets we just aren't getting the value from the property and this block you will say the following.
I'm going to use string format which is basically going to let us return a String and a template or
format just more convenient to concatenate a string together instead of just saying string plus another
string.
It's a cleaner way of doing it.
So in this case I will say 0 1.
These are just place holders for values you pass into the string format this case 0 will be first name
and one will be last name call.
So here's a distinct difference between the fields and the properties.
As mentioned before you want to keep your fields private and then use your properties to expose the
value or value.
So if your fields and transform them if you want to as well.
So now our first name or last name are private and full name is public.
So you are basically saying full name will expose the values of the fields which is your property.
Now you don't have to have your fields as private and you don't have to have your property as public
but that's the best practice.
So why not keep up with the standards that are being used in the field.
Also one convention is that properties are capitalized and the fields have an underscore in front of
them.
Like so once again you don't have to do it the way that is shown but it is a very well known convention.
So why not be in line with how things are being done in the field once again then we will have a method
called sell.
It will simply print out a message introducing the salesman and then asking a potential client to purchase
a car.
So I will say public void sell
and that's going to say console right line in order to get access to a console class.
We need to export the system which we already did.
And then inside we're going to use string format once again for convenience strength and coordination.
Now we'll say Hi my name is 0 which is a place holder I would recommend you to buy this car.
And then we'll say full name which is going to be replacing the zero right here.
So once again is that convenient way for us to create a string.
So that's it.
Note A few things here.
Constructor has the same name as the class.
That's how you know it's a constructor.
See car salesman and car salesmen car salesmen is the class name that this reserve keyword references
to the class that you are inside of at the moment.
So in this case it is car salesmen.
When you type in this and then you say dot in front of it it will show you all of the available fields
properties and methods on the given class.
So if you take this out so dot.
So you have full name first name last name.
And so this case we need first name.
Now let's go ahead and actually instantiate this class.
We'll go to program take this out.
And then I will say car salesman Steve the salesman equals new car salesman.
I will say Steve Rogers.
Rogers his last name.
Will go.
So as you notice we use the new reserve keyword in order to instantiate the class.
And during the instantiation the constructor of the class right here is going to require us of all the
parameters it needs to build out the object or the instance of the class as it isn't also known once
instantiated we can use all of the properties and methods available to us so we can say console right
line.
In this case we just want to print out the full name.
So we say Steve the salesman got the full name.
We can say Steve the salesman does sell.
Notice that we're using the variable in order to access the properties in the methods because that is
where the instance of the class is.
The variable here is our object.
The car salesman is the class.
So this is the class.
This is the instance of the class.
Once again the car salesman is the blueprint or the map.
And then this Steve the salesman is the object which we can use to call properties and methods on.
We could have as easily made another object and called it Eric the sales dude and this would have been
a different instance of the same object.
So let's go out and do that.
I will say car salesman Eric the sales dude
equals new car salesman and Eric
where is Eric.
Eric Erickson and I'm going to actually copy paste this part because pretty similar except the fact
that we're gonna use Eric the sales dude as the variable name.
All right.
Once again if you remember from the chart we have one class that tells us how to build the object and
then we can build as many objects as we want from that class.
So here we have one class which is the blueprint and then we can use that blueprint to create as many
instances of that class or a.k.a. objects as we want.
Going back here this is our class the blueprint then from that blueprint we can create as many objects
as they want.
In this case we have two which is Steve the salesman and then Eric the sales Dude two separate instances
of the same class.
Let's go ahead and run this to see how it works.
So we'll go in and Breakpoint it and then one.
All right let's go through it.
And you can see it's a Steve Rogers.
Hi my name is Steve Rogers.
I would recommend you to buy this car.
Eric Erickson.
Hi my name is Eric Erickson.
I would recommend you to buy this car.
So there you go.
This is a concrete class an object oriented programming.